tools/schedule_postpass/README.md, before:

# Schedule Post-Pass (Unified Index)

## TL;DR
- Keep **SHEET** docs as-is (current per-sheet JSON + `content`).
- Emit one **FACT** doc per **schedule row** into the **same index** (`doc_type="fact"`).
- Emit one **TEMPLATE** doc per room using the `templates/e_rooms_template.json` + `templates/a_rooms_template.json` scaffolds (foreman editable, `doc_type="template"`).
- Index name: `drawings_unified`.

## 1) Run the transformer
Templates live under `/path/to/templates_run` (e.g., `templates_run/electrical/E2.03/A4.json`); keep copying the repo defaults forward and extend them as needed.

```bash
python tools/schedule_postpass/transform.py \
  /path/to/sheet_json_folder \
  /tmp/out \
  veridian \
  --templates-root /path/to/templates_run
```

Generates embeddings for vector search using OpenAI `text-embedding-3-large`.
Embedding cost: ~$0.78 per 12-story building (one-time, updates only changed docs).

To update *only* foreman-edited room templates (skipping sheet/fact reprocessing):

```bash
python tools/schedule_postpass/transform.py \
  /path/to/sheet_json_folder \
  /tmp/out \
  veridian \
  --templates-root /path/to/templates_run \
  --templates-only
```

Outputs:

- `/tmp/out/sheets.jsonl`
- `/tmp/out/facts.jsonl`
- `/tmp/out/templates.jsonl`
- `/tmp/out/coverage_report.csv` (expanded metrics + template coverage)

## 2) Create the index & upload docs

Set env vars:

```bash
export AZURE_SEARCH_ENDPOINT="https://<service>.search.windows.net"
export AZURE_SEARCH_API_KEY="<key>"
export INDEX_NAME="drawings_unified"
```

Create + upload (Full rebuild):

```bash
python tools/schedule_postpass/upsert_index.py \
  --schema ./tools/schedule_postpass/unified_index.schema.json \
  --synonyms ./tools/schedule_postpass/synonyms.seed.json \
  --sheets /tmp/out/sheets.jsonl \
  --facts  /tmp/out/facts.jsonl \
  --templates /tmp/out/templates.jsonl \
  --mode full
```

Create + upload (Incremental template sync):

```bash
python tools/schedule_postpass/upsert_index.py \
  --schema ./tools/schedule_postpass/unified_index.schema.json \
  --templates /tmp/out/templates.jsonl \
  --mode incremental
```

> When a foreman tweaks a single room, rerun `transform.py --templates-only ...` to refresh `/tmp/out/templates.jsonl`, then call the uploader with `--mode incremental` so you don’t recycle the whole index mid-day.

## 3) Attach synonyms

Passing `--synonyms ./tools/schedule_postpass/synonyms.seed.json` to `upsert_index.py` auto-creates/updates the `project-synonyms` map. If you prefer to manage maps in the portal, follow the manual steps below.

1. In the Azure Portal, open your AI Search service.
2. Go to **Synonym maps**.
3. Create a new map (e.g., `project-synonyms-map`).
4. Upload/copy the contents of `synonyms.seed.json` into it.
5. Go to your `drawings_unified` **Index** → **Fields** and select the searchable fields (`content`, `project`, `sheet_number`, `sheet_title`, `key/panel`, `key/tag`, `attributes/description`, `room_id`, `room_name`, `template_tags`, etc.).
6. In the **Synonym maps** dropdown for those fields, select your new `project-synonyms-map` and save.

## 4) Quick checks (Developer Sanity Test)

> `query_playbook.py` is a simple **developer sanity check**. Production query logic (facts-first with sheets fallback) remains in your Azure Function. This script just validates that `transform.py` and `upsert_index.py` worked.

```bash
python tools/schedule_postpass/query_playbook.py
```

Expected checks:

- Dishwasher in Unit A4 → a `unit_plan` FACT
- Signed-off templates in Unit A4 → a `template` doc
- Panel S2 schedule → `panel` FACTs (from the filter)
- Main Riser Diagram → likely a `sheet` doc as fallback

## 5) Import order (recommended for full rebuild)

1. Electrical **panel schedules** (all rows)
2. **Unit plan schedule** (appliances: DW/Range/WH/Dryer)
3. Mechanical **equipment** schedule
4. **Lighting** fixture schedule
5. Architectural: **wall/partition**, **door**, **ceiling**, **finish**
6. **Templates** (must be last so the latest foreman edit is indexed)

Commit message:

feat: enhance processing pipeline with tenant_id support
- Added tenant_id handling throughout the processing pipeline, allowing for better organization and tracking of generated data.
- Updated various functions to accept tenant_id as a parameter, ensuring it is included in the output JSON and metadata.
- Modified Makefile to include new indexing commands for managing project-specific data.
- Improved README documentation to reflect changes in output structure and template generation paths.

tools/schedule_postpass/README.md, after:

# Schedule Post-Pass (Unified Index)

## TL;DR
- Keep **SHEET** docs as-is (current per-sheet JSON + `content`).
- Emit one **FACT** doc per **schedule row** into the **same index** (`doc_type="fact"`).
- Emit one **TEMPLATE** doc per room using the `templates/e_rooms_template.json` + `templates/a_rooms_template.json` scaffolds (foreman editable, `doc_type="template"`).
- Index name: `drawings_unified`.

## 1) Run the transformer
Room templates are generated by the processing pipeline and live under `processed/room-data/<drawing_slug>/` (e.g., `processed/room-data/E2.03/E2.03_e_rooms_details.json` and `E2.03_a_rooms_details.json`). The transformer recursively searches for all `*.json` files under the templates root.

```bash
python tools/schedule_postpass/transform.py \
  /path/to/sheet_json_folder \
  /tmp/out \
  veridian \
  --templates-root processed/room-data
```

**Note:** The `--templates-root` should point to the base `room-data` folder (or the parent directory containing `room-data/`). The transformer will recursively find all `*_rooms_details.json` files under this path.

Generates embeddings for vector search using OpenAI `text-embedding-3-large`.
Embedding cost: ~$0.78 per 12-story building (one-time, updates only changed docs).

To update *only* foreman-edited room templates (skipping sheet/fact reprocessing):

```bash
python tools/schedule_postpass/transform.py \
  /path/to/sheet_json_folder \
  /tmp/out \
  veridian \
  --templates-root processed/room-data \
  --templates-only
```

Outputs:

- `/tmp/out/sheets.jsonl`
- `/tmp/out/facts.jsonl`
- `/tmp/out/templates.jsonl`
- `/tmp/out/coverage_report.csv` (expanded metrics + template coverage)

## 2) Create the index & upload docs

Set env vars:

```bash
export AZURE_SEARCH_ENDPOINT="https://<service>.search.windows.net"
export AZURE_SEARCH_API_KEY="<key>"
export INDEX_NAME="drawings_unified"
```

Create + upload (Full rebuild):

```bash
python tools/schedule_postpass/upsert_index.py \
  --schema ./tools/schedule_postpass/unified_index.schema.json \
  --synonyms ./tools/schedule_postpass/synonyms.seed.json \
  --sheets /tmp/out/sheets.jsonl \
  --facts  /tmp/out/facts.jsonl \
  --templates /tmp/out/templates.jsonl \
  --mode full
```

Create + upload (Incremental template sync):

```bash
python tools/schedule_postpass/upsert_index.py \
  --schema ./tools/schedule_postpass/unified_index.schema.json \
  --templates /tmp/out/templates.jsonl \
  --mode incremental
```

> When a foreman tweaks a single room, rerun `transform.py --templates-only ...` to refresh `/tmp/out/templates.jsonl`, then call the uploader with `--mode incremental` so you don’t recycle the whole index mid-day.

## 3) Attach synonyms

Passing `--synonyms ./tools/schedule_postpass/synonyms.seed.json` to `upsert_index.py` auto-creates/updates the `project-synonyms` map. If you prefer to manage maps in the portal, follow the manual steps below.

1. In the Azure Portal, open your AI Search service.
2. Go to **Synonym maps**.
3. Create a new map (e.g., `project-synonyms-map`).
4. Upload/copy the contents of `synonyms.seed.json` into it.
5. Go to your `drawings_unified` **Index** → **Fields** and select the searchable fields (`content`, `project`, `sheet_number`, `sheet_title`, `key/panel`, `key/tag`, `attributes/description`, `room_id`, `room_name`, `template_tags`, etc.).
6. In the **Synonym maps** dropdown for those fields, select your new `project-synonyms-map` and save.

## 4) Quick checks (Developer Sanity Test)

> `query_playbook.py` is a simple **developer sanity check**. Production query logic (facts-first with sheets fallback) remains in your Azure Function. This script just validates that `transform.py` and `upsert_index.py` worked.

```bash
python tools/schedule_postpass/query_playbook.py
```

Expected checks:

- Dishwasher in Unit A4 → a `unit_plan` FACT
- Signed-off templates in Unit A4 → a `template` doc
- Panel S2 schedule → `panel` FACTs (from the filter)
- Main Riser Diagram → likely a `sheet` doc as fallback

## 5) Import order (recommended for full rebuild)

1. Electrical **panel schedules** (all rows)
2. **Unit plan schedule** (appliances: DW/Range/WH/Dryer)
3. Mechanical **equipment** schedule
4. **Lighting** fixture schedule
5. Architectural: **wall/partition**, **door**, **ceiling**, **finish**
6. **Templates** (must be last so the latest foreman edit is indexed)
